[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Array is one
of the fundamental data structures.
It's a contiguous series of span
of memory divided into equal sized
slots where each slot is indexed by
a number, very fast, very efficient.
JavaScript doesn't have
anything like that.
Instead what JavaScript does is while the
first version of JavaScript forgot to put
arrays in, and people figured out that
well, we can just use an object, right.
We can use the bracket notation, we can
pass numbers, the numbers get turned into
strings and it all kind of works like an
array sort of and that's still what we do.
So there is now an array data type.
It inherits from object and
the indices are converted into strings and
used to retrieve and store values.
The good news is, that is extremely
efficient for sparse arrays.
Unfortunately, we don't
do sparse array stuff,
we're almost exclusively doing dense array
stuff and it's very inefficient for that.
One other advantage it provides is that
there is no need to provide a length or
type when creating an array.
We can just say empty angle brackets.
That's a new array and then you can
add as much stuff as you want to it.
You don't have to worry about out of
bounds errors because it's not really
an array, it's a hash table.
So every value is in balance.
>> Douglas Crockford: Arrays,
unlike objects,
have a special length property, and
that property is always one larger
than the highest integer subscript,
which is not necessarily the same
as number of elements in the array.
So we can make an array with an object
literal or with an array literal.
Using the bracket notation,
we can have multiple expressions
in there separated by commas,
each of those will provide
a value to an element.
We can append to an array by
assigning to it's current length
which is really weird looking,
but it works.
So in this case, myList.length is 3,
so we'll assign to it,
and the length will now
be turned into 3 plus 1,
4.
>> Douglas Crockford: Arrays come with
a more interesting set of
methods than objects have.
Objects have very little useful
stuff coming from object.prototype.
This stuff is all stored in
array.prototype, much more useful set.
We'll look at a couple of these.
For example, there's sort method,
where we can take an array of numbers and
we can sort it.
So anybody see what's going on here?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas Crockford: But it's sorting on
the strings.
So it takes each number, converts it
into a string, takes the other one,
converts it into a string, compares
them and it does that in log times.
It's awful.
So fortunately, sort can take
a function argument which
receives pairs of values and
it returns minus 1, 0 or
1 based on their relative magnitudes.
So you can override this terrible
behaviour, but It's stupid by default.
You can delete an element from an array,
but it doesn't do what you expect.
So usually, you want to use
the splice method to close up a hole.
So let me demonstrate that.
So here we've got an array
containing four elements and
I want to delete element number one.
That'll leave a hole in it which is
identified as the undefined value.
If you try to retrieve
a value from an array and
it doesn't have that element,
it returns the undefined value.
So if you want to get rid of that,
use a splice method.
You say go to element one,
delete one element.
Then you'll get in an array that's
more like what you were expecting.
The way it does that is it deletes
element one, it retrieves element two,
deletes element two,
re inserts it as element one.
It goes to element three, reads it,
deletes it, re inserts it as element two.
It's not fast.
>> Speaker 3: Whoa.
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH]
There's a look of horror in the crowd.
Okay, so because objects and arrays
are made out of the same stuff in this
language, it turns out that
you can use just one of them
most of the time which is a really bad
idea because sometimes it matters.
And because it sometimes matters,
I recommend, use the right one.
Use objects when the names
are arbitrary strings,
use arrays when the names
are sequential integers.
Don't be confused by
the term Associative Array.
In JavaScript, the Associative Array
is called the object.